docs: concepts for cloud and doc-reorg (#2196)
langchain-ai/langgraph: docs/docs/concepts/langgraph_platform.md

### Threads

A thread contains the accumulated state of a group of runs. If a run is executed on a thread, then the [state](low_level.md#state) of the underlying graph of the assistant will be persisted to the thread. A thread's current and historical state can be retrieved. To persist state, a thread must be created prior to executing a run.

The state of a thread at a particular point in time is called a checkpoint.

For more on threads and checkpoints, see this section of the [LangGraph conceptual guide](low_level.md#persistence).

The LangGraph Cloud API provides several endpoints for creating and managing threads and thread state. See the [API reference](../reference/api/api_ref.html#tag/threadscreate) for more details.

### Runs

A run is an invocation of an assistant. Each run may have its own input, configuration, and metadata, which may affect execution and output of the underlying graph. A run can optionally be executed on a thread.

The LangGraph Cloud API provides several endpoints for creating and managing runs. See the [API reference](../reference/api/api_ref.html#tag/runscreate) for more details.

### Cron Jobs

> It's often useful to run graphs on some schedule. LangGraph Cloud supports cron jobs, which run on a user defined schedule. The user specifies a schedule, an assistant, and some input. After than, on the specified schedule LangGraph cloud will:

Reviewer: Graphs or assistants for terminology in first sentence

# LangGraph Platform

LangGraph Platform is an opinionated way to deploy and manage your LangGraph application.

> See [this section](#overview) for an overview of how LangGraph Platform actually deploys your agent.

Reviewer: When linking we should avoid "this" in the link name -- it makes difficult to know what one gets before clicking.

```suggestion
The [overview](#overview) section explains how the LangGraph Paltform deploys your agent.
```

There are multiple ways to deploy LangGraph Platform, including a free option. See [this section](#deployment-options) for an overview and comparison of the different deployment options. 

## Overview

LangGraph Platform provides an opinionated way to deploy your agent.
It provides additional [features](#features) and [concepts](#data-models) compared to the open source.
It is designed to work seamlessly with your agent regardless of how it is defined, what tools it uses, or any dependencies.

With LangGraph Platform, you define your environment with a simple configuration file and it generates a Docker image with our API server built in.

## Features

Deploying agents in production can be [challenging](deployment.md).
We built LangGraph Platform to incorporate best practices for agent deployment so you can focus on building your agent logic.

With LangGraph Platform you get:

**Streaming endpoints**

Endpoints that expose [multiple different streaming modes](streaming.md). We've made these work even for long running agents that may go minutes between steam event.

**Background runs**

We've exposed endpoints for running your graph in the background.

> This includes endpoints for polling for the status of a run.

Reviewer 2: As well as joining the real-time output stream of a background run.

> **Support for long runs**

Reviewer 2: I think it goes further than that, eg. we've made sure endpoints don't time out when an agent takes more than 60s to produce output etc

> **Support for long runs**

Reviewer: say more? we're sending data in flight that reports status or some kind of heart beat to make sure connection doesn't get timed out?

We call this ["double texting"](double_texting.md) and have added four different ways to handle this.

**Optimized checkpointer**

LangGraph Platform comes with a built-in [checkpointer](persistence.md#checkpoints) optimized for LangGraph applications.

**Human-in-the-loop endpoints**

We've exposed all endpoints needed to support [human-in-the-loop](human_in_the_loop.md) features.

**Memory**

In addition to thread-level persistence (covered above by checkpointers), LangGraph Platform also comes with a built-in [memory store](persistence.md#memory-store).

## Deployment Options

There are several deployment options for LangGraph Platform.

|                                | Free | Self Hosted | Bring Your Own Cloud | Cloud |
|--------------------------------|------|-------------|----------------------|-------|
| Who manages the infrastructure | You  | You         | Us                   | Us    |
| With whom does the data reside | You  | You         | You                  | Us    |
| LangGraph Studio Included?     | ❌    | ✅           | ✅                    | ✅     |

> | Assistants Included?           | ❌    | ✅           | ✅                    | ✅     |

Reviewer 2: Can we add crons/scheduled runs

### Free

> All you need in order to use the free version of LangGraph Platform is a [LangSmith](https://smith.langchain.com/) API key.

Reviewer: clarify that there's a free tier with langsmith

You need to add this as an environment variable when running LangGraph Platform. It should be provided as `LANGSMITH_API_KEY=...`.

> LangGraph Platform will provide a one-time check when starting up to ensure that it is a valid LangSmith key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
LangGraph Platform will do a one-time check when starting up to ensure that it is a valid LangSmith key.
```

> The free version of LangGraph Platform does not have access to some features that they other versions have, namely LangGraph Studio and Assistants.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The free version of LangGraph Platform does not have access to some features that the other versions have, namely LangGraph Studio and Assistants.
```

See the [how-to guide](../cloud/deployment/cloud.md#create-new-deployment) for creating a new deployment.

### Revision

A revision is an iteration of a [deployment](#deployment). When a new deployment is created, an initial revision is automatically created. To deploy new code changes or update environment variable configurations for a deployment, a new revision must be created. When a revision is created, a new container image is built automatically.

See the [how-to guide](../cloud/deployment/cloud.md#create-new-revision) for creating a new revision.

### Asynchronous Deployment

Infrastructure for [deployments](#deployment) and [revisions](#revision) are provisioned and deployed asynchronously. They are not deployed immediately after submission. Currently, deployment can take up to several minutes.

### Architecture

!!! warning "Subject to Change"
    The LangGraph Cloud deployment architecture may change in the future.

A high-level diagram of a LangGraph Cloud deployment.

> ![diagram](img/langgraph_cloud_architecture.png)

Reviewer: diagram is missing redis

## Data Models

The LangGraph Platform API consists of a few core data models: [Graphs](#graphs), [Assistants](#assistants), [Threads](#threads), [Runs](#runs), and [Cron Jobs](#cron-jobs).

### Graphs

In order to use LangGraph Platform, you need to specify the graph(s) you want to deploy.
You can specify multiple graphs to deploy at the same time.
You do not need to specify [checkpointers](persistence.md#checkpoints) or [memory stores](persistence.md#memory-store) when compiling your graphs - LangGraph platform will add those in automatically.

### Assistants

An [Assistant](assistants.md) refers to a [graph](#graphs) plus specific [configuration](low_level.md#configuration) settings for that graph.

When building agents, it is fairly common to make rapid changes that *do not* alter the graph logic. For example, simply changing prompts or the LLM selection can have significant impacts on the behavior of the agents. Assistants offer an easy way to make and save these types of changes to agent configuration. 

### Threads

> A thread contains the accumulated state of a group of runs. If a run is executed on a thread, then the [state](low_level.md#state) of the underlying graph of the assistant will be persisted to the thread. A thread's current and historical state can be retrieved. To persist state, a thread must be created prior to executing a run.

Reviewer: `group` -> sequence

The state of a thread at a particular point in time is called a checkpoint.

For more on threads and checkpoints, see this section of the [LangGraph conceptual guide](low_level.md#persistence).

The LangGraph Cloud API provides several endpoints for creating and managing threads and thread state. See the [API reference](../reference/api/api_ref.html#tag/threadscreate) for more details.

### Runs

> A run is an invocation of an assistant. Each run may have its own input, configuration, and metadata, which may affect execution and output of the underlying graph. A run can optionally be executed on a thread.

Reviewer: > A run can optionally be executed on a thread.

needs to be clarified

The LangGraph Cloud API provides several endpoints for creating and managing runs. See the [API reference](../reference/api/api_ref.html#tag/runscreate) for more details.

### Cron Jobs

> It's often useful to run assistants on some schedule. LangGraph Cloud supports cron jobs, which run on a user defined schedule. The user specifies a schedule, an assistant, and some input. After than, on the specified schedule LangGraph cloud will:

Reviewer: needs 1 sentence example as motivation

> It's often useful to run assistants on some schedule. LangGraph Cloud supports cron jobs, which run on a user defined schedule. The user specifies a schedule, an assistant, and some input. After than, on the specified schedule LangGraph cloud will:

Reviewer: "After that, on the specified schedule LangGraph cloud will:" fragment
